---
slug: "use"
title: "Usage"
description: ""
summary: ""
date: 2025-09-27T20:11:40+08:00
draft: false
weight: 105
toc: true
seo:
  title: "" # custom title (optional)
  description: "" # custom description (recommended)
  canonical: "" # custom canonical URL (optional)
  noindex: false # false (default) or true
---

## Data Storage

If for some reason you need to clear the data generated by mika-shell, it’s helpful to know the following:

- `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/mika-shell` is the directory where configuration files and frontend files are stored.
  Or you might be more familiar with this path: `$HOME/.config/mika-shell`

- `$XDG_DATA_HOME/webkitgtk/` is the directory where Webview data is stored.
  Website-generated data such as cache, cookies, and localStorage will be saved here.
  Or more commonly: `$HOME/.local/share/webkitgtk/`

- `$XDG_CACHE_HOME/webkitgtk/` is the directory where Webview cache is stored.
  Cache files will be saved here.
  Or more commonly: `$HOME/.cache/webkitgtk/`

- mika-shell also creates files like `/tmp/mika-shell-xxxx.sock` in the `/tmp` directory for IPC.

{{< callout type="warning" >}}
`$HOME/.local/share/webkitgtk/` and `$HOME/.local/share/webkitgtk/` may be changed in the future to a more recognizable directory,
for example: `$HOME/.local/share/mika-shell/`
{{< /callout >}}

## Run

You can execute `mika-shell -h` to get more command-line help.

Start mika-shell with the following command:

```bash
mika-shell daemon
```

If the configuration directory does not exist, running `mika-shell daemon` will automatically create the [default configuration files](https://github.com/MikaShell/mika-shell/tree/main/example).
If everything is working correctly, you should see a simple bar appear at the top of the screen.
Click the Debug button on the left side of the bar to view more examples, and right-click to open the web debugging tools.

The initial configuration is mainly intended for development, testing, and exploring features, and is not suitable for daily use.
In the next chapter, I will introduce how to create your own configuration from scratch.
